Abstract—Around the world, there has been an increase in traffic accidents over the fast few years, and even wealthy
nations like US are not immune to this issue. According to statistics, there were more than 1 million accident fatalities in
2020. This demonstrates the problem’s egregious gravity andneed for the prompt attention. Numerous unpredicted outcomes,
including unnatural fatalities, permanent injuries, lost wages,etc., are brought on by road accidents. The main contributors
to these unanticipated collisions are driving when distracted,fatigued, going too fast , breaking traffic laws, and driving while
intoxicated, among other things. Basically human wants safetyand comfort to lead happy life. To achieve this, current world
trying to summon for automation in transportation. Automation is involved in transportation to reduce human involvement in
transportation and to increase the human safety. To get around these constraints we aimed to design an effective and trustworthy
prototype of FPGA controlled self-driving car. Our design based on the concepts of image processing, CNN, computer vision,
Machine learning to achieve basic features like lane detection,object detection and collision avoidance. our model is able to
sense the surroundings and make decisions according to it without human involvement. It detects the lane lines and objects
through the camera and LIDAR sensor attached to it and calculates the distance of the objects from the car for proper
and accurate decision making using image processing through
OpenCV. 

A. Lane detection

In self-driving cars lane detection plays one of the chief role.To acheive this we use algorithms like Hough transform(It
is a feature extraction technique used in image processing and com- puter vision to detect regular shapes, such as lines,
circles, and ellipses in digital images.), Canny edge detection(An algorithm used to detect the edges of the real time
objects)etc., It is accomplished through image processing in OpenCV. After dectecting the lanes path planning was done.

B. Object detection

Object detection is a key component in the self-driving cars by combining with the sensors, which helps in decision
making and motion control while ensuring the stability of the vehicle.In our system we perform Object detection using
YOLO (You Only Look Once) algorithm which incorporated with non-maximum sup- pression and Intersection Over
Union(IOU) through image processing in OpenCV.

C. Collision Avoidance

Whenever we have a thought of transportation one thing we always fear about is collisions highly called as acccidents.
Using decision making we achieve this very accurately. In our design controlling part helps a lot to grab this collision
avoidance efficiently.
